#labels Featured
This section describe basic usage of the TBL parser.

= Requirements =

To run our scripts, you will need working 
  * Linux environment, Python (minimum v 2.5), 
  * [http://www.scipy.org/ SciPy] is needed for its NumPy.
  * [http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/ matplotlib] is needed for its plotting capabilities.
  * [http://www.informatics.susx.ac.uk/research/groups/nlp/rasp/ The RASP System] is needed for its POS tagging and dependency parsing capabilities. If you are not interested in long-range features than you do not need RASP.

= Installation =

Checkout the project into your home directory. The name of the directory for the TBL parser should be `tbed-parser`. If you want to have read/write access to the project SVN tree use the following command (you also have to be a contributor in this project)
{{{
svn checkout http://tbed-parser.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ tbed-parser --username YOUR-USER-NAME
}}}
or
{{{
svn checkout http://tbed-parser.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ tbed-parser
}}}
the read-only version.

= Run an example =

Go to the  "~/tbed-parser/" directory:
{{{
cd ~/tbed-parser
}}}

Run command from the bash command line:
{{{
./train ./experiment/
}}}
Consequently, in the directory "results", a new directory with results of the experiment will be created. The directory will be named as "YEAR-MONTH-DAY-HOUR-MINUTE" and its content will be similar to the following listing:
{{{
debug-dev.sem.hyp       debug-test.sem.hyp       debug-train.sem.hyp       debug-train.sem.pckl-bestrules  rules.txt
debug-dev.sem.hyp.algn  debug-test.sem.hyp.algn  debug-train.sem.hyp.algn  debug-train.sem.pckl-decoder    settings
debug-dev.sem.hyp.anlz  debug-test.sem.hyp.anlz  debug-train.sem.hyp.anlz  debug-train.sem.rules
debug-dev.sem.hyp.rslt  debug-test.sem.hyp.rslt  debug-train.sem.hyp.rslt  rules.pckl-bestrules
debug-dev.sem.hyp.stat  debug-test.sem.hyp.stat  debug-train.sem.hyp.stat  rules.pckl-decoder
}}}

= Next = 

[ConfigurationOfTheExperiment See how to configure experiment.]
